>> Jon Kuperman: So let's talk a little
bit about how we measure performance.
So who here has heard of the Core Web
Vitals, this kind of idea of Google?
They've had a few different
iterations on this, right?
So they originally they had
their page speed test, and
page speed would measure
a few different things.
And then they ended up
coming up with Lighthouse,
which we'll cover pretty
in-depth during this course.
But they basically are trying
to think of these things,
they also have the RAIL model,
which we'll cover briefly in this course.
And now they've sort of settled
on these Core Web Vitals.
So Core Web Vitals, this is open source,
it's under the What Working group, and
lots of different companies
contribute to them.
And they're basically these concepts
that are important to all websites and
web applications.
So one that you may have heard of
is the largest contentful paint.
And really what that means is that they
monitor how your website loads, and
they find the biggest
paint with content in it.
Painting, for those unfamiliar, is one
of the steps that a web browser does.
So if you are building a web browser,
and again, we'll cover this more,
but you have the network layer, it
fetches HTML and CSS and JavaScript, and
then you have the parser and compiler.
And then eventually you make
this document object model.
And you do this rendering phase where
you're like, well, how big is that square,
how big is this square?
And then, eventually, you do painting.
Now that you have all the data,
you tell the browser what pixels to
turn what colors, things like that.
And so the idea with the LCP, your largest
contentful paint, is it monitors your page
loading, it finds the biggest block
that has some kind of content in it, and
it sees how long it took for
that to finish painting.
So you could think about it like
if you have a shopping cart and
you've got your sidebar and
your header, and
then you've got the items in your
shopping cart or whatever, very
likely the items in your shopping cart
will be the largest block on the screen.
And so, basically, what this is gonna
measure is when that finishes rendering.
So even if you have an incredibly fast
header and an incredibly fast sidebar, and
then it takes five to seven seconds
to load in all that shopping cart,
you'll end up getting the LCP
of that five to seven seconds.
And so this is a really cool metric for
basically kind of being able to understand
how long your website
really takes to load.
Not how long the first element
takes to show up, or necessarily,
how long the last element
takes to show up.
Cuz maybe the last element is an ad, and
you don't really care
about when that loads.
But you really do care about this thing.
Similarly, we've got this
interaction to next paint.
Again, these are meant to be
these kind of core philosophical,
important bits of all web pages.
So if somebody interacts, like clicks
a button, like add to cart, or search, or
whatever it is, how long does it
take until the next paint finishes?
So if I click add to cart and a little
spinner shows up for seven seconds, and
then eventually it takes me to a new page,
that seven seconds is gonna be from the
click interaction to the next major paint.
And then the last one is this
cumulative layout shift.
It's essentially back to this
kind of way that browsers render.
But it's basically like, how stable is
your UI as you're kind of doing things and
moving things around?
And we've all probably seen these
pages where the page loads, and
then an image comes in, and the image
throws off everything on the page.
So that would be a very low or
a very poor cumulative layout shift,
where the layout is changing in a big
way while the page itself is loading.
So we kinda wanna know, on a page load,
when is the page stable,
when is it really settled and shifts are.
And so this is really cool technology,
this is not specific to Google.
These are things that we will see
when we run our Lighthouse audits.
I think they're really
good metrics to have.
And if you are interested in them,
there's really cool standards bodies and
working groups behind them, yeah,
to kind of just understand, yeah,
how to measure performance.
>> Speaker 2: And just to add to that,
Todd Gardner has a course
on Frontend Masters covering
web performance fundamentals.
>> Jon Kuperman: Excellent.
>> Speaker 2: That dives
really deep in those two.
>> Jon Kuperman: That is great to hear,
yeah.
So I think these are really cool concepts.
I like the direction that
they're heading in very much.
And I like that the group themselves
are open to adding new metrics.
Yeah, and I think they're a very,
very cool project to work on.
Speaking of,
quick last shout out to my company.
So we contribute to the Core Vitals,
which is really cool.
So we basically have wanted for
years the ability to say,
I don't really care about
the largest contentful paint.
What I really want is to be
able to target an element,
and I want to know when that thing paints,
that's the important thing to me.
So you could imagine financial data,
you don't really care about the header or
the share button or
the statuses or whatever, you really
care about that table of financial data.
And you want to be able to put an ID,
let's say, on that table, and
measure forever, how long does
that table take to load data?
And so over the last few years,
we've been working to get what we're
calling element timing or
container timing.
And so those will both be now added
to the Lighthouse Core Vitals.
I say this much less to
shout out Bloomberg,
and much more to talk about how cool
these things are when they move outside
of a company and become an open standard
that anybody can contribute to.
So when you are using Lighthouse, if you,
say, you set it up with CI, and eventually
you're like, it'd be really cool if we had
this, don't let that dream be a dream.
These are very great welcoming groups that
you can join, and you can pitch anything,
any gaps that are missing.
So yeah, so
I'm a big fan of these Core Vitals.
I think it's gone through many iterations,
and
I'm quite happy with what
we've kind of landed on here.
Cool, another one,
just kind of covering up.
This has not necessarily been replaced by
Core Web Vitals, but it's just another
framework that Google's put out, which is
just a way to think about performance.
And it really affects their tooling and
how their tools work, but
they basically think about these
four different characteristics.
One of them is how responsive your app is,
right?
So if you click, or if you scroll, or
if you zoom, or something like that,
how quickly does your
app respond to events?
Another one is animations,
what is animated, how smooth is it,
how fast is it?
Just generally thinking about
animation across your site.
Another one is idle time, so have we all
seen this thing before where we click
a button, but
the website's doing something?
And so your button click doesn't get
registered for a long amount of time?
So your app should be idle, not the whole
time, but it should have breaks of being
idle very frequently so
that people can interact with it.
It shouldn't just be hanging and
thread locked for
so long that people can't
actually use the site.
And then the last one is load,
how long does a page take to load?
How long does an action take to load,
things like that.
So again, these aren't hyper technical,
they're more philosophical ideas.
But they really influence the tools
that we're gonna be covering today.
Okay, so I do like to do a little bit
before we kind of dive too deep into
the course, kind of wondering
where everyone's at with DevTools.
Yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: Is it reasonable to try to
measure the Core Vitals automatically for
all or a sample of users and
collect them as metric data?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
that is a fantastic question.
Yeah, so this is what we call real
user data, or real user performance.
I do cover it later, but
I think it's such a great question.
So again, back to the kind of metaphor
I gave, or the example I gave
about measuring things on your really fast
network, on your really fast computer.
Probably within a few miles of
the data center that you use itself,
you can measure all these things for
you, right?
You can open Lighthouse,
you can run your app, and
then you can write down how
long these metrics took.
But the real thing that you should be
going towards if you are going to have
a very monitored for performance website
is, you want to know how long it actually
took your real users, on an average,
to load these things.
So the question being, can you collect and
measure these things for some subset or
actual users over time?
Absolutely, you can,
there is lots of open source or
SaaS tools, I think,
like New Relic and Sentry.
And there's all these monitoring tools,
there's like a million of them.
Those are really, really great,
you can enable them for all users, or
you can enable them for subsets.
And you can really collect all these
things, so you can get the P99 for
largest contentful paint done,
your average user.
Yeah, great question.
I think that as performance gets more and
more important, you should
have some way of measuring real user load,
and that's a great way of doing it.